Project: Furnace and Fugue

Project Directors: Nummedal, Tara, and Donna Bilak

https://furnaceandfugue.org/

# Project Review
Furnace and Fugues is an interactive online project that revives “Atlanta Fugiens”, a collection of 50 epigrams, emblems and fugues, a melody meant to be sung by three people, published in 1618 by Michael Maier.  These works have all been expertly digitalized with tools allowing users to swap between the translations and original work with ease.  The site has been written with an in-house custom site generator named furnace with details listed in their github repository.   
The site itself is easy to access and understand.  The newly digitalized works are the first thing people see and leads itself well to an average viewer.  One of the only disappointments with the site is the color scheme and layout on the main menus.  The bright orange colors make the background pop while leaving the text hard to read.  I feel like this issue is a simple one and could be easily fixed by a change in color or layout that would allow the text to be easier to read.
	
	this problem disappears once you get into the meat of the project.  The Emblems themselves are beautifully arranged from one to 50 with features that allow easy access to each.  The emblems are separated into two screens that show both the original work and the digitalized translations side by side as you scroll.  In case this became a problem for certain users, there is also the option to only show one or the other.  On the English translation there are even notes on the side to help a reader understand context of the original work and help when the translations don’t capture exactly what the original was trying to convey.  There are zoom options for the original in case a reader wanted to take a closer look at the beautiful drawings at the beginning of each section.  Of course, these images are of the highest quality to allow detailed zooms.  To top it all off a user can even drag and drop emblems into personalized collections. 
	 
	 However, the crowning feature of this site are the beautiful recordings of the old fugues sung by differing trios out of Brown university.   The 50 melodies are all expertly recorded with state-of-the-art equipment, making a beautiful rendition of these old songs.   What is amazing is the option to pick what voice or voices you’d like to hear perform.  Whether or not you’d like to hear it sung solo or by an accompany is up to the users.  There are two downsides, however.  First, there is no clear way to fast forward or rewind a song in progress.  This isn’t the biggest issue, as each melody is relatively short, but it would be nice to have.  The second is there is no easy way to download the songs.  It is a huge disappointment to have these lovely arrangements only be accessible through the website.   Although this hurt, it didn’t affect the awe of hearing the beautiful revival of these old melodies.  
	
	The other portion of the site is dedicated to essays written about the original work.  Like the main menu, the collection itself is difficult to navigate and doesn’t give much information.  A re-format is in need, maybe a more modern and minimalist approach to this layout would help users navigate it.  Thankfully, the essays themselves are just as easy to read as the emblems are.  Helpfully, each one ends with a citation to help any researchers using this website.  As a whole, it gets the job done and is easy to read.
	
	Furnace and Fugue is a wonderful site that fulfilled its purpose of reviving the classic works in “Atlanta Fugiens”.  While some of the menus could use a touch up, the works itself are all expertly done with only a few additions that would help.  The newly recorded songs are all beautiful and the site lends itself well to giving users information about the original works.  
